>> Brian Holt: So, what we're going to do
now, I think this is really, really cool.
And for the longest time,
up until maybe a couple of years ago,
I felt like this problem of
pathfinding was inaccessible to me.
I felt like I didn't have enough theory.
I didn't have enough mathematics, logic,
whatever you want to say,
to approach this problem.
And sitting down with
some of my friends that worked that
Netflix, they kind of started talking.
I'm like wait, I can do this.
I understand how to do this.
And I got really excited about it and
learned a bunch of stuff about it.
And since learning about
how to do pathfinding,
it's come up in like four interviews.
It is pretty useful and it comes up
very frequently in senior interviews.
Let's talk about what pathfinding is.
I think its super fun but
my definition of fun might not be yours.
I sit at home and do it on whiteboards.
I'm just kidding that's not really true.
Actually that's kinda true but
that's okay.
Pathfinding.
We're going to have a 2D Cartesian graph,
which is just a fancy way of saying
a plane that has x and y coordinates.
That's really what I'm trying to say here.
I think in these particular examples,
we have origins starting at the top left.
Cuz we write a lot of CSS and
we're probably pretty used to that.
I'm pretty used to that so
I'm gonna make you be used to it too.
And the idea is I have two points,
in this case a and b.
And I wanna get from a to b, right?
I wanna path find all my way over there.
So just sitting down right now with
those particular goals in mind.
I imagine many of you would be able to
write some sort of naive implementation
that basically says go
towards it until you hit it.
Which works in this particular case,
right?
If there's no obstacles,
if there's no bends or anything like that.
You could probably just say, if I need to
go in a positive direction go positive,
if I need to go in a negative
direction go negative.
And that would generally work, you would
end up with something like this, right?
From A, to B, I would go down
until I could go down no more, and
then I would go right
until I would hit it.
And that would be a good path finding
algorithm for this particular instance.
Given those constraints,
this will probably be the most efficient
path finding algorithm you can get.
This is like go until you hit it, right?
It follows, so as you imagine,
people that write Google Maps don't
have such simple constraints, right?
You have to take turns, and there's one
ways and all sorts of stuff like that.
So that's what we're gonna teach
you how to do today is one
way to pathfind in a maze that has walls
and constraints and things like that.
Right?
Cuz if you try and do your strategy here,
you're gonna go until you hit this X And
you like I can't go through that,
now what would I do, right?
You could probably try and go this way and
then that didn't work, and
then you try go the other way.
Suffice to say,
your algorithm goes from very simple to
very complicated very quickly, right?
So it would be great if there some way
that we could solve this a little bit more
elegantly.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm going to
introduce you to some, I can never
remember how to say this, Dijkstra's?
Am I saying that right?
I don't know, I'm sure someone
online is like no it's Dijkstra's.
It probably is.
It's actually, might be Dijkstra's.
Shit.
Anyway, [LAUGH] it's this guy's algorithm,
right?
It's really cool.
I will actually confess to you that this
is not actually truly the same algorithm
as I think it is Dijkstra's.
What we're going to be doing is
a variation, a simplification of this.
But the two are often conflated,
just so you know.
It's not actually truly that his algorithm
takes into account waitings as well.
And we're not going to do any waiting or
heuristics, which is another term
that I will explain to you perhaps later,
just not at this moment in time.
So let's try this algorithm.
What we're going to do in this
algorithm is we're going to
start at point A here, right?
Like what you see right here.
And then I'm gonna go one
in every single direction.
I'm gonna go up, I'm gonna go right,
I'm gonna go down, and
I'm gonna go left, right?
And after I do that with point A,
I'm also gonna do it from point B, right?
So I'm gonna go down to point B and
I'm going to go left, I'm gonna go up, and
I'm gonna go down.
And I'm gonna mark all of those as
belonging to point A or point B.
And I'm going to mark them of how far
away they are from the origin, right?
So in this particular case, this one's
one way, this one's one away, and
this one's one away, right?
Cool.
I'm gonna start by doing that.
Then I'm gonna go back to point A and
I'm going to go to each one of these.
I messed up,
this should also be a 2 right here.
And I'm gonna one away from each
one of those as well, right?
Yeah, in fact you can see
down here I fixed it.
So, this would be 2.
So, each one of those,
I'm gonna go one away, right?
So, this is two, this is two,
this is two, this is two,
and this should be two right here, right?
So, it's one step further.
These are two steps away from A.
Do we follow?
Kinda, just in a spiral fashion here.
Same thing with B,
I'm going to go down and
mark all of these as being two away,
two away.
And obviously this is a wall, so
you can't go through the wall.
So that one just kinda gets skipped.
Okay?
At this point we're just gonna keep
alternating.
So this is three, three, three, and three.
And then all of a sudden,
they haven't quite crossed her but
on the next iteration these two
spirals are going to intersect right?
At that point you have found
the shortest path, right?
Because that means that I can go from one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, right?
So as soon as these two spirals intersect,
you're guaranteed that
you have found the shortest
path possible between the two.
It's a mouthful.
Does that make sense?
Right?
And because you're doing these spiral
patterns, you're guaranteed as
soon as they intersect that
it's going to be
the shortest path possible.
Because if it wasn't
the shortest path possible,
you would have found it
in a previous iteration.
Now, in this particular case,
we technically found like five
shortest paths, because you can go
left first, you can go down first.
It's going to vive you a shortest path.
And if you ran it all
the way to completion,
you would have all of the shortest paths.
Any questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So let's talk about how
this actually works,
because you actually already know
how to write the code for this.
I know that because I literally just
taught it to you, like half hour ago.
[LAUGH] So picture these,
rather than being
points like a Cartesian graph,
picture them as being trees, right?
So if I go down here,
I have A, which is at 1-1.
And then it has a left child,
a slightly less left child, a slightly
less right child, and a right child.
So it's like a tree
that has four children.
And what I'm doing here is I'm just
processing one layer at a time for
each one of these, right?
>> Brian Holt: This,
hopefully, starting to go
off in your head it's like,
this looks a lot like
breadth-first traversal, right?
I have these trees that
have all these children and
I'm just processing one layer at a time,
right?
Because I'm trying to stay as close to the
root as possible Because I want to find
the shortest path right?
You could do death first traversal and
it would take you to all
the crazy ends of the graph.
But we're trying to find this
actually as soon as possible.
Ideally if you look here,
when we find the answer,
we never processed any of
these black dots over here.
Because we're trying to do
this as fast as possible.
You don't want to look at everything
if we don't have to, right?
So that's why we're doing
breath-first traversal here.
So that's exactly how you're
going to solve it, right?
You're going to put each of
these children into a queue.
And you're just going to keep solving
the queue until eventually you find two
things that,
I'm gonna go from this node to this node.
I'm gonna see that this node is marked by
A and say cool, I found the answer, and
that's it.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make
sense?
>> Speaker 2: So
there'd be a fourth unmarked iteration,
right?
And that's when you'd find the-
>> Brian Holt: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: At some point,
you're gonna process this node right here.
It's actually gonna be
processing this node.
This node's gonna say this
one's been marked by B.
This has not been marked by A.
And therefore, I've found the answer.
I'm going to end the iteration.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
in this particular case, I'm just
going to ask you to find the length.
I'm not going to ask you
to find the actual path.
I don't want you to return to
that because there's a lot of
different right answers there.
But if you were trying
to find the actual path,
you would just be storing
the path on nodes as well.
Like, how did I get here, just so
you know.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so yeah, you just
keep enqueuing all the immediate children
until you run out of things to process.
And that's it.
>> Brian Holt: I
will say that you're gonna have
two different queues, right?
You're gonna have a queue for A and
you're gonna have a queue for B.
There are clever ways to write this code
so that you only are using one loop.
Don't do it,
just write two different loops.
It's just a lot simpler and
a lot easier to read.
So that's what I wanted to tell you.
I want to show you this because
I think it's really cool.
So, this is called breadth-first search.
I was trying to be a little
coy about what it was called.
[LAUGH]
So
that's why these are two different things.
Breadth-first, and extras.
But if I have two nodes here and I'm going
to just put a wall between two of them,
and I'm not going to allow diagonals.
In this case I'm asking
to not do diagonal.
But as you might imagine it's
relatively similar you just,
instead of enqueuing four things
you would enqueue eight things.
And then you can see what it looks like.
This is unidirectional.
>> Brian Holt: If you just do one,
it's a little less effective.
So if I, now I'm gonna say bidirectional,
which means look at both of them at
the same time.
>> Brian Holt: As soon as these
two intersect,
then I know I found the answer, right?
But that's what it looks like.
Hopefully, that helps to
visualize what's happening
there.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about that?
>> Speaker 2: So Dijkstra and
Breadth-First are different?
>> Brian Holt: If you
do Dijkstra's algorithm with no waiting.
So when I say waiting,
>> Brian Holt: I think in this case.
Yeah, I mean,
there's a little bit of difference there.
Let's see if I can show you.
This is more of what I was thinking of.
So you could be a little
bit smart about this.
Typically the best path is going
to be the straightest path, right?
So you could put some sort of weight so
that it tries to go towards it first.
Right?
And that's what I'm saying is that
dykstras can account for that.
And breath-first is purely blind
like just spiral until they meet.
Cuz the problem with this is
what happens if I have something
like this where it's going to try and
go towards it first.
It's going to be less efficient
when it does it that way.
Cuz it's going to try to go towards
it first before going away.
Anyway.
>> Brian Holt: Nonetheless
they're all still doing a spiral
in some direction, right?
They're just kind of being choosy
about which ones it's enqueuing.
So that's really fun to play with,
you should definitely check it out.
There's a bunch of different
path finding algorithms.
This is just the simplest to code up
which is why we're gonna do that one.
And then I definitely would invite
you to go do A*, just investigate A*,
which is the one that I just showed you.
>> Brian Holt: If
you wanna see the difference,
I put a Stack Overflow answer to
answer your question about
what the difference is.
Because I had that question,
too, that's why I Googled it.